# nrg
A simple program implementing the numerical renormalization group

A more detailed description of the project is on the computational physics blog: http://compphys.go.ro/the-numerical-renormalization-group/

Everything related with NRG is either in the NRG namespace or has the class name starting with NRG. There are three kind of classes for NRG implementation, one is dealing with data passing around and adjusting and controlling the algorithm running, one is the operators, derived from the `Operator` abstract class and one is the NRG algorithms, derived from the abstract class `NRGAlgorithm`.

The rest of the program is very simple, just an interface to the NRG. It allows starting/stopping the computation, some configuration settings and it displays the charts. That's about it.

TOOLS

The project compiles on Windows with Visual Studio 2015.

LIBRARIES

Besides mfc and other typical VC++ runtime libraries, the program uses GDI+ for drawing.

The program deals with matrices using Eigen: http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page

CLASSES

The NRG Namespace:

`ControllerInterface` and `ResultsRetrieverInterface` are interfaces that allow by deriving from them classes that respectively cancel calculation and get the results from it.

The operators are derived from the `Operator` class. `Operator::Extend()` extends the operator by adding new states for the new Wilson site. Added states are in the most significant bits position. The `changeSign` member allows extending the operator matrix for fermionic operator type (if true) or bosonic operator type (if false). The minus sign there is due of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anticommutativity" target="blank_">anti-commutation</a>. Classes derived from it are: `Hamiltonian`, the hopping operators `FUpOperator` and `FDownOperator` and the spectral operator, `SpectralOperator`. This one is a regular operator with some methods added that allow calculating the spectral function for the operator. `DUpOperator` is the spectral operator that is used for generating the spectral function for the Anderson and two quantum dots models.

The `NRGAlgorithm` class implements the NRG. From this class three examples are derived: `QDAnderson`, a quantum dot with the Anderson model, `QDKondo`, a quantum dot with the Kondo model, `TwoQDRKKY`, two quantum dots coupled by spin-spin interaction, only one being coupled to the leads. The later should be considered only qualitatively, to have better precision one should use symmetries for calculation. Anyway, it's enough to show the split of the Kondo resonance due of the two stage Kondo effect.

`NRGComputationThread` is the class that implements the computation thread for NRG, the calculations run in a different thread to avoid locking the UI.

`NRGController` is derived from `NRG::ControllerInterface` and allows cancelling computations (the thread checks it each computation step).

`NRGResultsData` is derived from `NRG::ResultsRetrieverInterface` and allows passing the results to the main thread and allows it to check if computation is finished.

The options are implemented by `Options` and they are saved/loaded into/from registry. The options UI are implemented by `COptionsPropertySheet`, `CNRGPropertyPage`, `CParametersPropertyPage` and `CChartsPropertyPage`.

The charts are implemented by the `Charts` class. It's pretty messy and far from perfect, I might improve it in the future. It uses GDI+ for drawing. Flickering could be eliminated by various methods, I let it there because it offers better feedback that something is happening and besides, I was lazy. Maybe I'll fix it later.

`CAboutBox` needs no explanation.

`CMainFrame` is the main frame window, it implements/routes commands.

`CnrgApp` is the application class. There aren't many changes in there except initializing and shutting down GDI+, setting the registry key and loading the options from registry.

`CnrgDoc` is the 'document' class. It contains the computation thread, the thread controller and the computation data objects. It also contains the chart objects. The most important member is `CnrgDoc::StartComputation()` the others are pretty straightforward.

`CnrgView` is the 'view' class. Has some changes compared with the class generated by App Wizard, related with drawing/printing. There is a timer implemented there which allows checking for computation finish and updating the charts. There is also some handling of the cursor, making it a 'wait' cursor during calculations.

`CNumberEdit` implements an edit box for double and float values. By setting `allowNegative` one can control if negative numbers can be entered or not.

`ComputationThread` is the base class for the NRG thread. There is not much in there, just starting the thread.

